if animals are to work in a team they
need to be able to communicate with one
another sometimes it's possible for you
to communicate with them
Oh
wolves howl to warn neighboring packs to
keep their distance but they also do so
to reunite their own pack if it's got
scattered after a long hunt and as they
assemble again they visibly delight in
one another's company
this back to like that of African
hunting dogs is ruled by an alpha pair
who are the only ones to breed but
there's also a strict hierarchy among
the other members one for males and one
for females this is reinforced daily by
mouth licking crawling and mounting
these rituals become particularly
intense dust before the pack leaves on a
hunt it's a bonding session that reminds
each hunter of its place in the team
invaluable in the struggle to come and
off they go
those distant dots are their targets elk
the North American equivalent of the
European Red Deer
snowdrifts will make the chase difficult
Wolf's pads are particularly broad but
in really deep snow the Alps long legs
give them the advantage and in such
country as this there's little chance of
taking them by surprise
so the chase is likely to be a long and
exhausting one
one of the Stags is flagging and the
pack have managed to separate it from
the main herd another Sprint's passed
close by and confuses things most of the
wolves stick to their original quarry
they have after all been harrying it for
some time and it may be tiring but it's
got away another wolf is chasing the
stag that ran by them earlier
but that escapes to only one in ten wolf
hunts is successful